{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red27\green31\blue34;\red255\green255\blue255;\red10\green77\blue204;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18280\viewh14280\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Getting and Cleaning Data Project - Course Project\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 Author: Andrew Becker\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Description\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 Information about the course project for the JHU Getting and Cleaning Data course.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Source Data\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 Data From\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 UCI Machine Learning Repository}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Data Set Information\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 There are 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data.\
The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Attributes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2  Each record has:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Triaxial Angular velocity from the gyroscope.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Its activity label.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Please see the README.md for how the following instructions are implemented\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/mGalarnyk/datasciencecoursera/blob/master/3_Getting_and_Cleaning_Data/README.md"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 README.md}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\fs30 \cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 1. Merge the training/test datas sets to create one data set.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 2. Extracts only the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 3. Uses descriptive names\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 4. Label  data set with descriptive  names.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.\
}